E/16/388
Weerasundara W.M.T.M.P.B.
CO324 Lab 6: Pub-sub with MQTT Part (a) Design decisions

1.
Since there is no server in a publish-subscribe system, each client will have to store a list of tasks in their local storages. To store all tasks, 
clients should subscribe to all the topics and when someone publish to a topic, subscribers will get messages and they can update their local storages.

2. 
Task id generation can be done by the user itself. We can hash the descriptions in order to get unique task ids based on their description.

3.
We can create topics for ADD, DELETE (and LIST as well) operations. When a client does a operation, it will be published to the regarding topic. If clients are subscribed to
all the topics using wildcards, then clients receive the update about the operation. (ADD, DELETE) 

LIST operation is required if, 
i.   A client is joined in the middle  
ii.  Lost the local stored task list due to error in local storage
iii. Failure of receiving updates from the subscribed topics due to connection issues

4.

a.
QOS 0 send a message at most once and it is unreliable. This is not suitable.

QOS 1 sends a message at least once and also have acknoledgement policies and duplicate messages indication flags. Since we use unique task ids, even with duplicate 
messages we can handle them. Therefore QOS 1 is suitable.

QOS 2 sends a message exactly once and guarentees it by 4 way handshake. It is kind of over kill for this implementation.

Therefore QOS 1 is better suited for ADD and DELETE operations.

b.
If clean session flag is false, connected client is considered durable. Eventhough client got disconnected, all of its subscription data will be stored untill it 
reconnects. If flag is set to true, all subscriptions will be removed once the client disconnects.

Therefore it is better to set Clean session flag to false ADD and DELETE operations.

c.
If Retained flag on message publication is set, broker will keep a copy of published retained messages, even after they are sent to all the subscribers. This is usefull 
if a new subscription is made by a client and there is a previously sent retained message for that topic, retained message will be sent to the new client.

Therefore we can set Retained flag on message publication to true for ADD and DELETE operations.


5.
Both a and b options are can be used since we use wildcards.

6.
Since we can access task description using task id, we dont need to include description in the topic.

 


 






 